Welcome back.
Let's go through a bit of a history lesson.
You know how much I love those.
It's always important to ask why did this tool get built.
Why did people spend time and money creating it with any tools that we use.
So before we had Dr. we had something called virtualise machines and that is all here on the left hand
side.
We had tools like VM ware or virtual box and virtual machines are what we called sandbox environments
which contains a full fledged computer with its virtual hardware operating system kernel software.
And as you can see in this diagram it's like having if you can imagine this being one computer a virtual
machine was like having a computer on top of it.
So you had app was running on an operating system on this computer up to running on the same computer.
But again another operating system.
And you can see it was pretty pretty big.
But this allowed us to solve this problem of having things run in an environment that is the blue environment
here the orange environment the red environment in a consistent predictable manner and because there
are such big things that had their own operating system meant and libraries that sometimes it took a
few minutes to even boot up these applications now docker came along and changed the idea that you see
with darker containers they wrap up the software in a complete file system that contains everything
and needs to run just like we had with virtual machines.
You had code runtime system tools system libraries anything that you could install on a server.
You can use with docker.
And again this guaranteed that it will always run the same regardless of the environment it is running
it now containers are a lightweight alternative to the full machine virtualization or virtual machines.
Therefore they're designed unlike virtual machines for running just single applications on each container.
Because they're so small and thin and this is a popular concept of micro services that we talked about
containers that use the host operating system they don't have their own operating system like we have
with virtual machines.
They use the host operating system.
And because of that they need just a few seconds and your container application is up and running a
lot faster than we had with virtual machines so with darker containers we're able to have a fast and
easy access to run these small single applications and just have multiple of these things just create
as many containers as you want they're easy to just grow and grow as you scale as you have more users.
And that's when you start getting to things like container orchestration where you now have to just
manage all these containers which by the way if you have ever heard of Cabernets that is what it does.
So I think we got that point across.
Darker is a container platform.
Unlike virtual machines containers bundle only their libraries and settings required for your application.
Are efficient light weight and self-contained and this makes sure that your application will run the
same anywhere and everywhere.
So containers are good right.
Absolutely.
Now that we got that across Let's talk about what containers actually are.
I've kind of thrown around the R word but haven't really explained what it is.
Well a container can be explained with the diagram.
We first have a host that is a machine or a computer that we're going to be able to host our container
on.
So again in this section we're going to use our laptop as the host or your computer as the host.
Now on top of this host we have what we call the container something that we create with Dr..
And luckily for us with one comment because of Dharker we can just create this container and inside
of it we have something called an image and a container consists of an image.
You see an image is what doctor uses to bundle your application into a standalone package that can live
inside of a container.
So within this image I can say I want a node server and this image is read by the doctor because again
it's just a file and this file generates this container that runs.
Note for us.
Now the key part of this is that the environment inside the container is completely isolated from that
of the host machine.
So it doesn't matter what we run here as long as this machine can run docker.
Then within this container we can have all the libraries and dependencies that we want for our notes
server to work.
And by the way this image also has something called a ridable file system just like we have files on
our computer and is added on by docker automatically inside of the container.
And that's what we call a volume.
So we have the image which is the file that describes what the container should do and within that container
we also have the option to use something like a file system just like we have files on our laptop for
extra functionality.
To review docker bundles your application into an image a standalone executable package and Dharker
executes this image in this container and the environment inside the container is completely isolated
from that of the host machine.
Again this is something that we're going to come back to.
I'm going to demonstrate to you how we're going to do this and we're going to work together to create
a dog in danger.
And then we're going to come back to this image and you're going to realize oh yeah this all makes sense
now.
So stick with me.
Trust me you're going to get it.
Now this whole image thing sounds pretty complicated right.
Well luckily for you there's something called Dharker hop and it's what makes docker an amazing product.
You see Dr. Hobb simply hub dot dot dot com is kind of like NPM and Javascript and with Doctor hub it
provides a store like Web site where you can search and download images to use.
There were already pre-written by people and it's highly adopted by a lot of people and many organizations
so it's something that most people working Dharker use.
For example if I scroll down I see that all right there's a node image that I can use if I click on
details.
I see that.
All right I have different node versions that I can use.
Let's say I wanted to use nine point eleven I can click on the dock or file here and look at that.
Although this may look like jibberish now we're going to go over this a bit and late on videos but this
is the docker image by just using this file and running docker with it.
It's going to create a container that has the node version 9 already set up for us and you can see here
that we have plenty of things that we can run and we can postscripts we can run Monga we can run to
boon to read S which we're going to talk about and so many so many things.
So just like NPM you can use these packages already predefined for us.
And most of the time you're going to be doing that instead of writing your own.
But I'm going to show you how to write some of the your own Daco files because why not.
So now that we have the basic understanding of what doctor does and what containers are in the rest
of the section we're going to be doing something like this in our development setup.
We're going to create a docker container that is connected to our front end our front end smart brain
application.
Now within this Stockard container we already have our node express API but we're also going to bring
in our postscripts as well as eventually rattus for session management.
Again coming up in future sections and by putting all of this in a container we can just run one single
command and have the database API server read its database all running getting started getting booted
and starting to gather in this one container.
It's going to be like magic.
And by the way in most production setups that you see with modern companies you'll see something like
this where you have our client side application our smart brain that has some sort of a load balancer
and this load balancer just distributes to different API servers so that if we have a lot of traffic
we don't clog up one API server and we have these API servers clone because they're just simple Gawker
images.
So by just creating more and more containers that's easy for us to do.
And don't worry I'll show you how to do a load balancer as well in an upcoming video.
And these API servers now connect to databases like postscripts and we can have multiple databases again
to handle all the load.
And also they can connect to something like Pretis which we'll talk about that manages caching or session
management and you can see by having docker we're just able to easily clone and create more copies as
we scale and as we grow.
But I want to show you this diagram just for reference to show you what a production app looks like.
The idea being that we're able to create these small services that we can duplicate so that as our demand
of the app grows as our user base grows we can grow with it.
All right.
It's time to get started with docker and the next videos.
I'll see on that one.
Bebai.